by the end of the film we hope that you
will be prepared to begin participating
in revolutionary activity yourself there
was an episode from history that really
moved me emotionally when I read it the
first time and it came from one of the
smaller islands off the south coast of
Korea refugees who were running away
from the horror of what communism was in
what became North Korea when they got
there there were completely idealistic
completely naive university students who
wanted to support communism and it
wanted to have a revolution on that
small island and the refugees who were
there and who had endured they had seen
the horror of the gulag they had seen
the reality of what communist revolution
created in North Korea and they probably
also knew about what was going on in Mao
Zedong's China in communist China
further north because it's just not that
far away they knew how terrible
communism and practice really was and
those people those refugees on that
island with no guidance from the
government with no army support they
rose up and fought on the streets and
they killed people they said no they
were willing to fight to the death
against these communists to prevent this
from happening again in South Korea to
prevent this from happening on that
island and you can imagine the
misperception of the two sides because
those communists in those Island they
they weren't like secret agents working
for the north they weren't really
cynical include uh people they probably
were just idealistic students who heard
this same kind of [ __ ] that you're
hearing now on YouTube promising them a
better world and saying the system is
broken with these vague promises of
liberation and negation of everything
that's wrong with the capitalist system
but that's the thing about democracy
democracy is ultimately not just a
popularity contest there are people in
the population who know and there are
people in the population who do not know
what they're talking about and that's
one of the inequalities democracy has
had to stroll the cope with since
Aristotle and ancient Athens hey since
the democracy in ancient Athens voted to
have Socrates put to death those people
in South Korea they weren't just
vision between left and right between
idealistic University students and
refugees ultimately there was a
distinction there between people who
know and people who do not know
revolution is serious business and it
requires serious study and consideration
but after you have familiarize yourself
with the concepts which we are about to
present we trust that you will be well
on your way to waging revolution against
the tyranny of capitalist depression
which grips us all there are those who
say that the best way to do away with
capitalism is gradually over time
through reform by voting for
anti-capitalist candidates and working
through the legislative process
communists can slowly but surely
implement laws and regulations that
weaken capitalism and strengthen the
working class at least in theory
reformists are skeptical that revolution
is even achievable at all in the real
world and they see revolution as an
unrealistic and unachievable fantasy
reform is also not enough Marx and
Engels touched on reformist socialism
when they discussed budva socialism in
the communist manifesto writing this
form of socialism by no means
understands abolition of the boudoir
relations of production an abolition
that can be effected only by a
revolution rosa luxemburg further
elaborated on the need for revolution
and her 1899 pamphlet social reform or
revolution reformists do not really
choose a more tranquil calmer and slower
road to the same goal but a different
goal our program becomes not the
realization of socialism but the reform
of capitalism not the suppression of the
wage labor system but the diminution of
exploitation that is the suppression of
the abuses of capitalism instead of
suppression of capitalism itself the
only way to do away with the brutal
system of capitalism once and for all
was to dismantle it completely which
calls for revolution
what is revolution revolution is quite
simply the replacement of one system
with another system entirely I think
it's tremendously important to clarify
this point revolutions change who rules
they don't change what is being ruled
they don't change the economic or
political system in the history of
ancient Rome there are numerous
revolutions what do we mean when we say
that there was a revolution in ancient
Rome a group of people very often
starting with a with a patrician house
with a group of aristocrats nobility
conspire and lead a revolution and take
over the government they change who
rules now also in history of Rome there
sometimes were revolutions from below
there was fighting in the streets and
the plebs the commoners sometimes the
slaves that were slave revolutions to
club revolution slave revolutions they
rose up and they changed rules but
changing the person who sits on the
throne or changing the people who sit in
the Senate is very very different from
the type of promise being made here and
note how vague and how entirely negative
the promise is being made here arm where
reform seeks to alter and change a
system in order to improve it revolution
relies on abandoning a system entirely
to erect a new one in its place it's
deceptively simple to promise abandoning
a system in Russia after 1917 did they
abandon the system of where cow milk
came from did they look at farming and
agriculture and say oh capitalist
production of milk is bad and evil and
wrong let's abandon it no milk and meat
and wheat and bread were all produced in
exactly the same way they didn't have
a new system to actually produce
anything do you think they certainly say
hey we have a new system of producing
cars we have a new system of producing
bullets and rifles oh the material that
needed for no they could neither abandon
the system of production they already
had for these things the government
relied on the government relied on food
the government also relied on explosives
and war material and so on right
they couldn't abandon anything of the
kind they could only take over a system
that already existed they could change
the people who ruled a new dictatorship
could rise up and take over the
government okay now in another sense
very literally when you look at the
seats of power when you have revolutions
including communist revolutions but not
only communist revolutions you have a
parliament what happens when there's a
revolution and new people take over
maybe they literally erase the word
parliament and replace it with the word
like the Hall of the people the Great
Hall of the People the People's Congress
maybe they come with a new name for the
fact remains there is a building with
chairs and the people who sit in those
chairs have power and you don't the
population doesn't the population is
still ruled by somebody then you look
through the other sections of the
economy the farms and the factories
they're still ruled by someone they're
hit there has been no change in
management in principle the only change
is in who is the manager what's changed
is ownership there are new owners there
are new bosses the actual system of
production the actual system of social
organization is the same and it's not
just Lenin who struggled with this and
it's not just Stalin who struggled this
hilariously Mao Zedong when he got to
the end of his life he was an old old
man he complained about this also that
he had signed up for this revolution and
he thought everything was going to
profoundly change but he complained as
an old man the only thing that has
changed is ownership now instead of it
being owned by capitalists these same
things
were owned and operated by the state
think of your car's engine if your car
won't start hopefully it's just a small
problem a bad sparkplug a loose belt
that sort of thing if the engine is in
good shape except for a bad part here or
there your mechanic can reform the
engine by replacing the broken part with
a new one but what if it's a major
problem what if the engine is in such
bad shape that it would be more time
consuming and expensive to fix it part
by part sometimes it's a better option
to just replace the entire engine even
if that were true it doesn't mean that
you have access to a technology that is
fundamentally superior to the internal
combustion engine if your car breaks
down you replace the engine you're gonna
replace it with another engine that
obeys the same laws of physics that
accomplishes the same task it may be
five percent more efficient or maybe
five percent less efficient but it's an
illusion to suggest that just because
you are replacing the engine that the
act of replacement itself means that
things will be fundamentally different
or better that's exactly what a
dishonest to used-car salesmen who tell
you yeah one engine is a little bit
different from another but the act of
replacement doesn't entail you have some
fundamentally superior technology that's
much better for the environment or
that's going to get you to work faster
these are the types of misconceptions
and kind of it's the misplaced
optimism that communist revolutionaries
are playing on if you think that state
ownership in an authoritarian sense or
even collective ownership in a so-called
you know anarcho-communism if you think
that's fundamentally better why don't
you take a look at American Indian
reservations why don't you take a look
at the difference between a casino
that's owned and operated by a
for-profit corporation and a casino that
is owned by all the members of a tribe
that answers to a tribal council we have
collective ownership community ownership
how different are they really ultimately
there's a board of directors there's a
manager there's a there's some kind of
hierarchy for management in one case
ultimately the management answers to the
shareholders as part of a for-profit
corporation in the other case the casino
operates and answers to a Tribal Council
and has to produce a profit for those
tribal people there are some differences
maybe it's five percent different maybe
it's ten percent different but nobody
who even is a cursory bit of research
into this nobody would think wow Las
Vegas Nevada would be fundamentally
transformed for the better if you took
away the ownership of the casinos from
private corporations and gave it to the
community that's already been tried
that's already a reality in the real
world here and now you see it on Indian
reservations and in practice it
resembles corporate ownership ninety
five percent an automobile or a cellular
phone is a good bit less complex than
human society however these examples do
demonstrate that reforming a system is
only a viable long term solution when
the system itself is adequately designed
a system can only be reformed if it is
worthy of reform you should notice that
the argument here is being made entirely
in terms of claims about how bad the
system is that's to be replaced and not
the quality of the system that would
replace it the claims are just being
made that the car engine is broken there
seems to be no onus on them to prove
that they have a technology that is
fundamentally superior to the car engine
if a system is inherently unfair if
power is distributed unevenly if
performance potential is severely
curtailed then revolution becomes the
only viable long-term solution whether
we're talking about the manager
of a factory the management of a coal
mine or the management of the house of
parliament the Senate the elite level of
decision-making in the government itself
really ask yourself what will change
when new people take over through a
revolution what is going to change at
the coal mine what will change is who is
in charge not how they manage not even
the motivations for why they will make
the decisions they make it happens
fairly often in capitalist democracies
that a group of workers will take over
the ownership of a company when the
company is going out of business or even
just when the original owners or
original shareholders decide that they
want to retire that they want to quit
they want to do something else with
their money when that happens so let's
say stereotypically there's a factory
that's going to go to business and the
owners say okay look we're contractually
obliged to pay out to all of the all of
the employees several million dollars in
some kind of severance or settlement now
as part of the act of doing business and
then some party steps in some outside
persons wait wait wait if all the
workers agree we can take this
settlement money we can take these
several severance packages and we can
invest it back into the company and in
effect there can be a kind of hostile
takeover where the employees take over
ownership of the company and it remains
open it keeps functioning under new
management but nothing really changes
when workers do this it's obviously
because they want to keep doing their
jobs rather than taking the payout and
by the way there will never be enough
money just from the severance itself for
that to happen some other quote unquote
angel investor will come in the
investment might stereotypically come
from you know some retirement savings
plan there's some pension plan that
decides okay they can put some tens of
millions of dollars into keeping this
factory open
you know partly on a for-profit basis
and partly charile basis whatever then
the workers invest this money and
there's still an office there's still a
manager there's still a boss and that
boss is still motivated by maximizing
profit they're still trying to make
money they still fire people for being
incompetent they still hire new people
because they think they can help them
make more money they still make changes
they still make executive decisions like
executives in a capitalist system in
much the same way and here we're just
talking about the workers taking over
the news especially within a capitalist
system the tragedy of the so-called
utopian experience of experiments and
communism all over the world whether it
was on the scale of a small plot farm or
in a huge scale factories mines a whole
society the tragedy is that this same
pattern plays out again and again and
again you have new people sitting in
Parliament you have new people sitting
in the manager's office but
fundamentally nothing much changes and
part of the problem is exactly that
these revolutionary proposals are just
stated in negative ways they just talk
about abolishing and getting rid of
capitalism okay well when you get rid of
the shareholders and replace them with
public ownership how different is it
really within the United States of
America today look at a government-owned
prison and a prison owned by a private
for-profit company how different are
they really there are some differences I
think you can actually look at the
prison system private sector versus
public sector and you can come to
conclusions about which one is doing a
better job which one pays its employees
better which one treats inmates better
there are some differences but if you
think you're looking at a dramatic night
and day difference between the private
sector operating something and the
public sector sector operating something
you're living in a kind of Fantasyland
and reciprocally with that when you look
at the disasters of companies that get
taken over and run by the private
not-for-profit center when you look at
what happens for example in the history
the Soviet Union of history of China
when the government decides they can do
a better job running the steel industry
than private investors can there were
certainly reasons to pause here in
question wait wait wait wait how strong
is this analogy that the engine in the
car is broken and even if the engine in
the car is broken
shouldn't we face it for the fact that
we're really just gonna replace it with
another engine of the same kind
shouldn't we be cognizant that finding a
Fault in the engine is something very
different from a blueprint for a
fundamentally new way to generate
electricity or generate motion within
the hood of that car capitalism is an
inherently and irredeemably flawed
system as we can see from the incredible
wealth disparity that exists in
capitalist states around the world this
argument is just an appeal to jealousy
wealth inequality is not the same as
injustice the fact that someone is more
beautiful than you someone like Matt
Elam Berner we've just seen on-screen
you may never be as beautiful as her you
may never be as fit as her you may never
be as wealthy as her you may never have
a kitchen that looks that nice or that
opulent in your life that doesn't mean
that she ever did anything to harm you
that doesn't mean that she ever did
anything to wrong you that doesn't mean
that she ever took anything away from
you people seem to be very eager to
imagine both historically and presently
that the aristocratic class is just a
parasite on society it's not enough for
me to just say here that the rich have
not taken anything away from you I think
it's really necessary for me to add
the rich give a great deal to help the
poor even in the United States of
America we're not talking about Denmark
here we're not talking about Sweden were
not talking about Singapore or Japan
look at this chart
who pays the taxes who pays to make all
of the good things in American society
possible who pays to transfer their
wealth and income to help the poor it's
the rich it's the rich who pay for the
poor it's the rich who pay for the
sewage system and the hospitals and all
the wonderful government services that
taxes bring it is the rich who are
paying for food stamps it's blindingly
obvious okay the top 1% 1% of the
population alone are paying twenty four
point two percent of the taxes in the
United States of America the United
States of America as you know it would
collapse the government would cease to
exist whole everything you assume about
life the existence of roads and
electricity would be impossible without
the richest of the rich paying that
money in taxes
look at that 80 first to 99th percentile
forty four point six percent if you add
those two together it is blindingly
obvious the important positive role that
the rich have in American society
now what measurable difference does that
make
for the poorest of the poor this little
bar chart from the Congressional Budget
Office this is from United States
government this little bar chart is
showing you the poorest 20% of people in
America the green bar is showing their
income before transfers and taxes so
their income before the government takes
some away in taxes and gives them some
in benefits and then the purple bar
shows you the income of the poor
after transfers and taxes okay the
poorest 20% of
Americans their wealth is more than
doubled look at the size of the two bars
they may be small but the poorest 20% of
people in the United States of America
benefit massively from the generosity of
the rich specifically the money paid in
taxes that is redistributed to them and
this is not paradise this is not Japan
this is not Denmark this is the
capitalist United States of America oh
and look at this this is the fourth
quintile so out of the five segments of
society if you split society into five
segments 20% 20% 20% 30% the fourth
quintile these will be people like
affluent doctors optometrists architects
these are wealthy people but not
fabulously wealthy people okay the
fourth quintile look at that the bars
are almost exactly the same when you
look at how much money they pay in taxes
and the benefits they get from the
government it's only a tiny tiny
difference they're giving up just a
little bit money so who's paying who's
paying to more than double the welfare
of the poorest to the poor
there it is it's the top one percent and
it's the highest quintile just as the
two blue segments of the pie chart made
obvious before it is not the case that
the wealthy of the United States of
America play no positive role in your
daily life on the contrary they are
underwriting the society you live in the
paving of the roads the provision of
electricity water heating you name it to
an extent you can hardly fathom here and
now if you think that the existence of
your education system would be better by
liquidating those two blue parts of the
pie chart No No maybe you can start to
imagine why it is that communist
societies overall seem to have decimated
their wealth once the revolution is over
and done with broadly in the history of
Europe you're talking about a situation
where capitalism emerge
after feudalism were the fundamental
wealth inequalities were created by the
fact that aristocrats owned the land and
peasants did not simplifying history a
little bit let's not get into details if
you come from Canada or the United
States or Australia it's more extreme
because it's a history of slavery and
genocide and colonial appropriation of
line up very rapidly kicking all the
people around and the people who ended
up owning the land they formed the
wealthy class they formed the ruling
class that's a problem and there's a way
to solve it that hasn't changed since
Aristotle if ownership of land is
unequal and unfair you can redistribute
the ownership of land if access to
education is unfair you can in effect
redistribute access to education if
access to medical care is unfair you can
redistribute that's the medical care all
of these things can be changed but
that's not the argument he's making here
the argument he's making here is that
wealth inequality the fact that some
people are richer than you is itself an
injustice so deep it's eliciting your
sense of jealousy that somehow the
existence of that wealth out of your
reach is a crime against you it's mo
harms you and therefore you have to rise
up in revolution and destroy the whole
system I think that is fundamentally
evil as well as being misleading and
false because this revolution is not
promising to take that money away from
the rich people and give it to you the
only thing the Communists are offering
and the only thing even the Socialists
are offering is to take that money away
from the rich and for it to be kept by
the state the people who are a little
bit more anarchist in flavor the
anarchic communist they will tell you
that the wealth will be owned by the
community or by everyone I you still
in Canada there was a community swimming
pool who do you think owned it it was
owned by the state it was owned and
operated by the state and powerful
people in government not me
decided when it would open and what it
would close and who could go inside and
who couldn't and how much money I'd have
to pay to go inside I was in absolutely
no sense an owner of that swimming pool
even though it was owned by everyone it
was owned by the community it was owned
and operated by the state if you just
pause and think that swimming pool
public swimming pool how different is it
really from a private for-profit
attraction like Disneyland I'll tell you
how it's different if something is
unpopular at Disneyland they have to
respond they have to they have to change
it really quickly if Disneyland opens a
new exhibit a new ride a new attraction
and it's unpopular they respond very
very quickly to public perception public
interest they respond to their
shareholders to yes and new manager will
be assigned and people will get fired
and be shuffled and new executives will
take over the and there will be a new a
new attraction put up as quick as can
possibly be and when something works
poorly in the public sector if you don't
have a very transparent democracy if you
don't have a system that really allows
members of the public to come in and
complain say no no no this swimming pool
is being badly run or it's corrupt or
there's something wrong with this it's
very very hard to get any change
why did Sega go out of business I mean
any of these companies you see it
happens around us all the time it's part
of the norm in capitalism to such an
extent that you can learn to ignore it
all the time private for-profit
companies respond to public interest
they're incredibly sensitive right then
it's it sure it's all rooted in the
profit motive but it's also rooted in if
you like the people pleasing behavior
the crowd pleasing behavior that's built
into the capitalist for-profit system
and the contrast to that is the
fundamentally bureaucratic fundamentally
Authority
Jerian fundamentally oppressive behavior
of state-owned government-owned public
entities okay now I'm not a libertarian
I think there were all sorts of things
in our society that can and should be
owned by the government I'm fine with
the government owning hospitals I'm fine
with the government owning prisons I'm
completely happy that the government
owns sewage treatment plants and most of
the time the government even owns the
pipes that takes the sewage away from
your house and there's another set of
pipes that bring clean drinking water to
your house and the government owns the
pump house and the government owns and
operates the electricity generating
power station it's a wonder all of the
things that the public sector owns and
operates that are owned and operated by
the government okay and I think it's
very important to have a transparent and
accountable democracy to prevent that
part of the economy from becoming
kleptocratic from becoming corrupt and
evil and abusive okay but the discourse
were being presented with here is
fundamentally appealing to your jealous
instincts it's telling you that it
doesn't matter how well the system runs
it doesn't matter how well the whole
government system runs in Switzerland
Sweden Denmark Japan doesn't matter
because as there as long as long as
there's somebody better off than you as
long as there's somebody prettier than
you as long as there's somebody
wealthier than you if you feel jealousy
you'll feel that somehow what they have
was taken away from you and you now want
to use the revolution and the power of
the state to take it back but the sad
thing is about the Communists they'll
never take it back they'll never give it
back to you they'll take it and then
they'll keep it for themselves it'll
become government property it'll become
the property of a totalitarian dictator
riyal communist state and the promises
of the anarcho-capitalists they're only
as different from that as what you see
with tribal self-government
on an Indian Reservation we're basically
a corporation with a manager and a Board
of Trustees operates a casino in the
name of the community in the name of the
people but it functions much the same
way as any other private for-profit
entity the only way to completely topple
this unjust and self-preserving system
is through revolution but how do we have
a revolution in a capitalist state where
the government has nearly limitless
power how can a small group of
revolutionaries ever hope to challenge
the globe-spanning empires of
exploitation which exist under
capitalism it does seem daunting the
issue of plausibility matters in another
peculiar sense I said to someone the
other day
look these revolutions you guys are
caught up on you must recognize that far
less than 1% of the population the
United States would support a Nazi
revolution Nazis coming to power and
taking over the government I say it's
far less than 1% okay and not just that
a huge percentage of the population
would be very strongly opposed to this
by the same token it's not just the
problem that less than 1% of people
would support this kind of communists
take over the government
but the well-informed opposition to it
millions and millions of people the the
number of people who would say no I'm
not just opposed to that on the level of
voting against it in a referendum but if
there were an attempt to take over the
government if there were a coup d'etat
how a communist that they know what that
means they know what the consequences
would be and that they would rise up and
they would fight against it to preserve
democracy preserve freedom of speech
however it is you want to think of what
it is they want to preserve in the
society they would be willing to stand
up and die fighting against that
communist dictatorship and communists
watching this video that's hard for you
to imagine think about how you would
feel if there
the threat of fascists of Nazis taking
over the government you would say the
same thing you'd say you you don't just
want to sit there you don't just want to
vote in a referendum
you're suddenly galvanized to such an
extent that you're willing to fight
against a coup d'etat you're willing to
fight to restore democracy and to
restore freedom speech and all these
other things because you know how
terrible the consequences are of
allowing a fascist dictatorship to take
over the government well those of us
who've studied the history of communism
we know also just how terrible the
consequences are if we allow a communist
dictatorship a dictatorship of the
proletariat to take over the government
we know how valuable it is to preserve
our democracy however flawed we know how
important it is to preserve democracy in
principle even in a flawed system there
was an episode from history that really
moved me emotionally when I read it the
first time and it came from one of the
smaller islands off the south coast of
Korea so there's North Korea South Korea
and then there were islands south of
Korea and a group of refugees had
arrived in this island this is kind of
during the Civil War period refugees who
were running away from the horror of
what communism was in what became North
Korea and they arrived in this island
and when they got there they were
completely idealistic completely naive
University students who wanted to
support communism and it wanted to have
a revolution on that small island and
the refugees who were there and who had
endured they had seen the horror of the
gulag they had seen the reality of what
communist revolution created in North
Korea and they probably also knew about
what was going on in Mao Zedong's China
in communist China further north because
it's just not that far away they knew
how terrible communism and practice
really was and those people those
refugees on that island with no guidance
from the government with no army support
they rose up and fought on the streets
and they killed people they said no they
were willing to fight to the death
against these communists to prevent this
from happening again in South Korea to
prevent this from happening
and you can imagine the misperception of
the two sides because those communists
in those Allen they they weren't like
secret agents working for the north they
weren't really cynical included uh
people they probably were just
idealistic students who heard this same
kind of [ __ ] that you're hearing now
on YouTube promising them a better world
and saying the system is broken with
these vague promises of liberation and
negation of everything that's wrong with
the capitalist system but that's the
thing about democracy democracy is
ultimately not just a popularity contest
it deals with hard choices choices
between things that are factually
correct and factually incorrect
decisions that are right and wrong
ultimately democracies have to set up
sewage systems that will prevent human
beings from having cholera that involves
technical scientific facts not just a
show of hands for what 51% of people
want to do with the budget to cope with
the sewage system hard terrible facts
and that creates both rational and
irrational inequality because when it
comes to making decisions about how the
sewage system should operate now the
education system should operate how the
health care system should operate there
are people in the population who know
and there are people in the population
who do not know what they're talking
about and that's one of the inequalities
democracy has had to stroll the cope
with since Aristotle and ancient Athens
hey since the democracy in ancient
Athens voted to have Socrates put to
death those people in South Korea they
weren't just a division between left and
right between idealistic University
students and refugees ultimately there
was a distinction there between people
who know and people who do not know
[Music]